# How does your chosen innovation enhance user experience or gameplay (and thus avoid being a gimmick)?
As the cell types are re-generated every time the game is played, the experience of the game is different each time. This is especially apparent when multiple games are played in a row whereby any advantage or disadvantage is balanced out.

It makes the game very fun to play as it is constantly changing - the front runner can fall behind very quickly - so the enjoyment factor is from the competitive nature of the game.

# How has this innovation increased or decreased your overhead as developers?
At first, we think it would increase the overhead - the initial learning curve to build a system that procedurally generates content is quite steep. It took us a lot of time to understand what we needed to do before we even started to implement the basic blocks of the game.
However once this is done, it makes the overhead in sum lower. We think this because if you were to, for example in our hex-based game, define the whole board manually it would take a very long time to make changes. Also to edit the size of the board would require a lot of extra work. So in the long-term it is better to have put in that effort.

# What part of your game's content is procedurally generated and what algorithm (or otherwise) did you use?
The hex grid and the colours & actions triggered by the different cells are all generated by the algorithm at the start of every new game. This means that every game is different.

Our algorithm determines how frequently different types of cells appear in the grid, which were fine tuned from lots of play testing to ensure that there was no clear advantage to any player and that it was fun!

The movement of the camera (so the grid is moving) increases in speed as the game goes on to increase the intensity in the latter part of the game. This also keeps the players from reaching the end of the board too early.

Note: the purple cells' actions in particular are relevant as the action determines the location of the front player and changes the board around them.

# Is your procedural content generated online or offline and does it use random seeds or user-set seeds or adapt based on the game state? Explain why you made these choices.
It is generated online: the grid is different every time you play. 
We used random seeds based on probability to define the frequency of the different cell types.

We chose online generation as for the nature of our game, the grid needs to vary between games so it remains playable multiple times. 
We used random to emphasise the procedural generation of content - it is always different.
We considered adding rules to make sure certain cell types appeared or did not appear at certain points in the grid, in order to not give any player an advantage. However we found that with our other features (the different coloured special cells), any advantage was balanced out early on in the game. 
This makes it more fun to play as the control is all on the player to do well, rather than for the game to inherently balance it. 

This allows for a variety of strategies based on which paths to take, or special cells to use - more fun, more replayable.
